Now let's discuss incorrect allocation of
execution time and incorrect execution sequence.
These types of temporal interference occur when software elements execute early,
late, out of order,
or that take too long to execute.
The function safety standard recommends three different mechanisms
for dealing with execution time and execution sequence faults.
They are alive supervision,
deadline monitoring and control flow monitoring.
All three of these mechanisms work with checkpoints.
There are software element reports its status at the beginning and end of execution.
A live supervision limits the number of times
a software element can execute within a given time span.
When a checkpoint is reached,
the system would analyze the number of times the element was executed.
Deadline monitoring looks at how long it takes to execute a software element.
If an element takes too long, an error has occurred.
And lastly, control flow monitoring ensures
that software progress is in the correct order.
For example, the execution sequence might be out of order or
a software element gets executed in
the middle of the sequence instead of at the beginning.
Separate software blocks would be included in
the system architecture to analyze the checkpoint.
If a fault occurred that violated the safety goal,
then the system should transition to a safe state.